Well welcome back.
So in this video we're going to see how to scrape data and then save it to a sequel database using the
exact same stuff we've already been learning.
So it's going to combine stuff from the scraping section earlier where we were saving data to a C S
V file at the end.
Instead of that we're going to save it to a sequel database which sometimes can be more useful depending
on what you're doing and will be able to query it.
Unfortunately there's not a ton of Web sites out there that I can show you to scrape and sort of get
away with it except for one of these websites that is made deliberately to scrape.
So we are going to scrape some different content this is if you didn't watch the scraping section we
scraped this books to scrape website.
But we're going to scrape some other values like the rating.
We're going to figure out how many stars are there.
It's a little more complicated.
We're going to scrape the entire title.
There's a couple of things we'll do.
But the main idea is to save it to a database to save a sequel or to a sequel like database.
And we're going to just work with these history books.
The URL is here.
You could pick any of these it's books to scrape books Dot to scrape dot com.
And then I clicked on history but all of them follow the same pattern.
And yet we're just going to one page of them.
But you could easily do all of these pretty simple it just you can automate it relatively quickly anyway.
You can copy this you know and I have a new file here called Book scraper it up Highway.
And I'm going to start by just importing the things I need so I need sequela three eventually.
I also need the requests module to request that or else they just copied and then I'm going to do from
B-S for UPS Yes for import.
Beautiful.
E B E A beautiful suit.
All right.
And if there's some extra noise coming through there's a large protest outside my apartment right now
and it's supposed to go all night.
So I do want to record this and get this out ASAP.
I'm sorry if it's super noisy.
I'll redo it if it's if it's too bad.
Anyway so the basic things you want to do are request you arow initialize vs.
And then we want to extract the data we want and then save that data to database.
So to request that you are so we're basically going to do a requests get and then pass in that you are
well I just copied and that should give us the HDMI content a ton of stuff.
So I'm going to save that to a variable called response like that and then we now need to do beautiful
soup and pass in the text from that response.
So that's response text.
And then we also need to say Tim Elda parser.
So if this is new to you I go into a lot more detail explaining the idea of scraping what this line
means what beautiful soup is in the scraping section.
But this initializes everything.
So now we can go through and find the pieces of information we want.
So let's go back and start with the title.
So let's just figure out what a book even is.
So when you divide the books What's like the container for each book.
All right so here is a row.
And in each row that's the wrong row.
And what one of these.
OK.
So we have a row and in each row there are allies and then inside of each line there's an article with
the class of product underscore pod and they're also the only articles on the page.
But we can just select all articles with the class of product underscore pod that gives us one book
and then the next book is also an article class equals product pod.
So we'll select all of those to get those individual books and then within that we can do we can find
certain things.
OK.
So let's go back here and select all of those books so I'll make a variable called books equals soup.
I didn't save this to a variable called Soup.
That's normal.
That's what I like to call it soup dot find all.
And then we pass in a selector like article and that's going to return to us.
All of the articles.
So we could start by just printing books and just make sure that we get something.
So I have a new folder I put this in because I have two new files the scraper and then the database
file.
So when you run that file see if I did anything wrong.
Yep looks like I did.
Indentation error.
All right.
Fix that.
Let's try that again.
It will take a moment.
All right.
So we're getting a ton of content but if we look at what we actually have let's see where did the article.
Here's an article that ends.
And here's a new one that begins.
So it is a list of articles and each article is an individual book.
This is one book right here.
So within that we're going to start by pulling out the title and kind of annoying thing is that the
title isn't actually easily accessible.
If we look at how it's stored.
Here's the title.
It's in a anchored tag.
But the entire title isn't always in the actual text of the anchor tag.
If you look at the inner text it's a it's a bridge is that the right term.
Sapiens A brief history dot dot dot.
It's cut off Rosena lips their lips.
Geez I don't know anyway.
But the actual entire title is contained in an attribute called Title.
So it's hidden.
We don't see it but it contains the entire title.
So we could scrape that and to do that we go select anchor tag inside of this article and then from
that we're going to select.
So we want the first anchor tag inside the article we want to select the title attribute.
So for each book.
Basically.
So for book in books we're going to loop over this array or this list of books that we just got for
each one.
Just double check our markup.
There's an H3 with an anchor tag inside of it and that will that's what we'll use instead of just plain
anchor tag.
There's maybe more than one.
I think this is a form yes not an anchor tag but just in case there's more than one anchor tag will
be more specific.
So for book in books I going to select within that individual book find and page 3 and then inside of
that H-3 we can do another find for the anchor tag.
And if we just do that just print that instead of printing all books but see what happens.
Takes a moment.
All right so now we're only getting those anchor text.
And what we want is that title attribute my cat scratching OK.
One more time back here to get the title attributes is a little bit trickier.
Well we have to do is use array brackets or list brackets.
Title just like that.
And that should print out each book title.
Let's just make sure there we go.
So those are all the books that we're scraping.
Those are their titles.
So that's going to get us the title The next thing that we're going to do.
I'm going to reorganize all of this content in a little bit into different methods.
But for now we're just going to just write it spaghetti code just going down the page.
So after the title let's talk about getting the price.
So the price is located right here.
This is pretty straightforward.
There's a class div class product price are actually price color that's what we want and we want the
text of that.
So that's not too bad although I'm going to store this in my sequel database as a number as a reel which
is basically a float that contains a decimal but I want to get rid of the currency symbol whether it's
a dollar sign pound euro.
We don't want that or inserting this as a number.
So the first thing we'll do I'll do the same thing just printed out book find.
So when we refer to a book it's the entire book article we happened to go to an H3 and find an anchor
tag and get that title.
But we still have access to the book the entire parent book.
So we want to find actually instead of find I think the easiest ways to do select where I can use a
C S S syntax and say Dot price price color like that.
And then within that if you look at what this gives me it's kind of annoying when it comes to the titles
even if it only finds one thing it's going to give me an array or a list and I want the first thing
in that list which is a paragraph.
So it's basically finding me all items that have that class price colored but there's only one.
But it assumes there could be more than one so it puts them in a list.
So I want the zero with Element first one and within that I want the text the inner text.
So zero is going to give me the only element in there but it's a it's a paragraph tag.
We only want this but then we have that annoying part.
Take a look at that.
I'm now getting this annoying symbol going.
So to clean that up a bit what I'm going to do is I'm printing the book title.
I'm going to make this a variable and just say title equals and then we'll say price equals this but
then we're going to clean up the price by replacing certain symbols in there.
So I'm going to copy those two things.
And there's more than one way of doing this but I'm just going to kind of do a clunky way.
I'm going to convert.
Well first I'm going to replace.
So price not replace and I'm going to start by replacing.
Let's do I'll start with that and then I'm going to do another replace and I could have probably just
done this but just in case some reason like I'm not sure exactly when I'm getting this or why it or
if every machine is going to have this issue that I'm having.
So I don't know a hard code that in.
So this place this symbol is there and this symbol if it's there but they don't have to be together
necessarily.
But if they are they'll both be removed and then we have to say replace with what an empty string like
that.
And then the last thing I'm going to do is convert the whole thing into a float that we actually get
a number and then let's start by just printing this nasty line.
But I'm going to move these all to a separate function in a bit.
So let's see if that works.
We'll see.
Come on.
You can do it.
Cool.
So now we're getting the prices without any of this extra stuff.
And they are indeed floats and that looks good.
So now I'm going to save that to be price just like that.
Get rid of the second Pirenne.
So now we have those pieces of data.
Well title and price then we need to tackle the issue of the review score.
And this part's kind of annoying.
It's not impossible.
What we're going to do is take these icons right here which are in a paragraph called Star rating or
as a class of star rating.
And then really the only indicator indicator I pronounce it that way when the indicator of how many
are there because there's always five stars there's always five icons just some are gray Some are yellow.
But we can't really tell that easily.
We can't really count that because it's done through CSSA after the fact.
So instead there's a class says five appear.
And if we look at this one there was a class it says 1.
So what we want to do is select the paragraph that has a class of star rating but we want the other
class that it contains.
And then we're going to have to convert that to a number.
So first let's just select that class that has star rating.
So we'll call it paragraph or something equals book select.
And then what was it Star underscored rating double check start dash your hyphen rating.
OK so that's going to give us the whole paragraph then to actually get the class to do some research
on this.
But to get the list we do get attributes list of class and I'm going to do this on a separate line actually.
So a paragraph and then we can't really make a verbal call in class so we'll call it C-a.
We can't do CLX either but let's go with rading and it's going to be paragraph get attribute list and
then we pass in class and I'm going to comment all of this other stuff out.
So you can see what that returns to us and we'll just print rating one more time up paragraphs not to
find I'm an idiot or using that line shouldn't have commented out.
So same issue as before where this is returning an array and it's telling me that the list is returning
a list on the list has no object get attribute or has no attribute attribute lists.
So I need to select the first thing in that list even if there's only one self to say I want the actual
element the actual paragraph.
Same thing that it did appear otherwise.
Without this we're trying to get text on the list not on the individual paragraph or the individual.
I think this was a paragraph as well whatever the actual element was.
So same thing here.
And let's test it out.
Now it's going to work better.
All right.
So now you can see what we get.
We get this list for each paragraph.
There are two classes and we want that second item.
So we're going to narrow it down a bit more and say we want the second item so index of one or what
I prefer because maybe there's more than one class.
Let's just say the last item in that array.
That's the challenge of scraping things could change of course but then you have to stay on top of that
to update make sure things do change that are code changes with them.
So now we're getting this text.
Cool.
So we're saving that to a variable called rating but it's still not a number.
And I want it to be an integer.
So what I'm going to do is basically make a dictionary that maps let's say 1 to the integer one and
I'll fill this out and come back.
There we go.
So now we can plug in something like 2 and get the number two out.
So let's try that.
So rading equals and I'll break this onto another line and just say I don't know number or how about
integrating equals rating like that ratings of rating.
So this is our word that we get back like five F I ve.
We plug it into the ratings dictionary and that should give us the number five.
And now finally we will print that rating out.
Let's give it one more whirl.
It's going to work for us.
I'm still printing the wrong thing aren't I.
You want to print the int rating.
So we did all that work and then we just didn't print it out over time.
All right.
Now we're getting numbers.
Cool.
So now we have three pieces of data that we want.
And we're scraping part is pretty much done.
What I want to do though is combine them all into.
Well there's two things I want to break these out into separate functions or methods.
It's really ugly to have this all like this.
So I want to have a method like I don't know let's say get title like that and then I want another one
that is def get rading.
So we can just pass the book in and get the data rather than having all this.
And then on top of that I also want to put them all in a list together so that I can insert them into
the database all at once.
But I'm going to talk about sequent in the next video.
So right now I'm just going to clean up everything and move it move our data into separate from her
move these lines into separate methods so get title will take a book and I'm just going to move basically
this one line into their Except I'm just going to return Bookout find a three find a find the title
so that will just return the title.
Then we have what's the next thing we'll do get.
Price it also will take in a book and then.
So I'm not calling it yet.
I'm just going to refactor them and we're going to take these two lines and move them down there.
Uncomment them and then we don't need to do.
So we'll make that price and we can just return this.
Just like that it's the same code.
We're finding the text we're removing the currency symbols and this random symbol and then turning it
into a float and returning that value.
And then for raiding if a bit more work to do like that and then we will return this value just like
that and I'm going to clean this when it changes to be the B word.
Just to make it clear we're taking a word and turning it into a rating.
Same logic.
So now we need to call these.
So I'm now going to find a method a peer that's just called scrap books and it doesn't take any arguments
or I don't know maybe it takes a u r l.
Sure why not.
And then in here we're going to actually do all of the scraping
so I'm going after the fact that it's a bit removed that you are out here and replace it with your show.
And then at the bottom I'm going to call scrape books with that you are ill.
So that will start everything.
Then we get all the articles and then we look for her for each book in book.
We're going to call get title on that book and pass and book.
We're going to call get price on that book and get reading.
But we're not storing it anywhere just yet.
What we could do to start simply is just put it all put them each in a tuple so we can do this put commas
between them.
Make it a tuple like that and then let's make an array or a list at the top just all books and add them
into that.
Just to finish off for now so all books pens and maybe it'd be nicer to make this its own variable.
So we'll call it new Let's call it book.
Data equals that tuple bookstand append book data so this will just collect the title the price and
the rating for a given book in a tuple and then we push it into this all books list and we're doing
that once for every single book.
So now if all works the very end we should be able to print all books.
All right.
Let's see if it works.
Moment of Truth.
Let's see.
Get reading takes your arguments but one was given.
I somehow left off book right there.
I'm sure you saw that before me.
Let's see if I was on the other.
OK it looks good.
So we're getting sapiens.
Brief History of humankind.
The price as an ENT or excuse me is a float and then an integer of the rating.
So next All we have to do is take this list of books and insert it into our database.
It's not that bad.